Desktop app v5.3 changelog (#6238)
mattermost/docs: source/install/desktop-app-changelog.rst

Latest Mattermost Desktop App releases:

- `Release v5.3 <#id1>`_
- `Release v5.2 <#id3>`_
- `Release v5.1 <#id17>`_
- `Release v5.0 <#id31>`_
- `Release v4.7 <#id46>`_
- `Release v4.6 <#id63>`_

Release v5.3
--------------

Release Date: 

**Download Binaries:** `Mattermost Desktop on GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/desktop/releases/latest>`_

Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Desktop App is supported on any supported Extended Support Release or a newer Mattermost server version.
- Support for Windows v8 and v8.1 have been dropped. Minimum supported Windows version was updated to 10+.
- Updated Chromium minimum supported version to 110+.

Highlights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Added application diagnostics.
- Implemented a global calls widget window.

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All Platforms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Added support for Gnome's "do-not-disturb" status.
- Added a menu item for showing the logs folder.
- Improved performance by reducing the number of calls for URL detection.

> - Changed the tray behavior on left click. Left-clicking on the system tray symbol now hides the application to system tray if it is already visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changed the tray behavior on left-click. Left-clicking on the system tray Mattermost icon now hides the application to system tray if it's already visible.
```

- Defaulted to opening a file when it is clicked from the download list.

Architectural Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Major version upgrade of Electron to v23.1.2. Electron is the underlying technology used to build the Desktop App.

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All Platforms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed an issue where a user could open a blank Electron window using the main window.
- Fixed an issue where image thumbnails did not always display in the downloads for MAS builds.
- Fixed an issue where the Boards/Playbooks tabs sometimes didn't appear automatically when a server was added.

> - Fixed an issue where RPM conflicted with other Electron based applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where RPM conflicted with other Electron-based applications.
```

> - Fixed an issue where a websocket certificate wasn't trusted along with a HTTPS certificate for the same origin.

Reviewer: the "along with" in this sentence isn't clear. Wouldn't this be one and the same certificate? Or is this a situation where there are actually 2 certificates that need to be trusted?

Author: Clarified the text. (Related PR https://github.com/mattermost/desktop/pull/2526)

- Fixed an issue where opening the app with a deeplink could cause the app not to redirect to the correct URL.

> - Fixed an issue with closing the downloads dropdown menu when clicking "Show in folder".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue with closing the Downloads drop-down menu when selecting **Show in folder**.
```

> - Fixed an issue with maximizing the main window when a monitor removed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue with maximizing the main window when a monitor is removed.
```

> - Fixed an issue where special characters in the server name caused the top bar to disappear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where special characters in the server name caused the top bar of the Desktop App to disappear.
```

- Fixed an issue where OneLogin users wouldn't have their credentials remembered.

> - Fixed an issue with plugin navigation displaying a white empty bar.

Reviewer: a white empty bar where?

Author: Clarified the text. (Related PR https://github.com/mattermost/desktop/pull/2446)

Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Users seeing an endless "Loading..." screen when attempting to log in to the app may need to manually remove their cache directory. For MacOS it is located in ``/Users/<username>/Library/Containers/Mattermost/Data/Library/Application Support/Mattermost`` and for Windows it is located in ``Users/<username>/AppData/Roaming/Mattermost``.

> - On Linux, a left click on the tray icon doesn't open the app window but opens the tray menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On Linux, a left-click on the Mattermost tray icon doesn't open the app window but opens the tray menu.
```

> - Crashes might be be experienced in some Linux desktop clients. This is an upstream bug in the ``libnotifyapp`` library. A recommended workaround is to disable the system tray icon in the Desktop settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Crashes might be be experienced in some Linux desktop clients due to an upstream bug in the ``libnotifyapp`` library. A recommended workaround is to disable the Mattermost system tray icon via Desktop Settings.
```
